[docs] EAS Submit: Add page about submission command (#11170)
expo/expo: docs/pages/build/submitting-to-app-stores.md

---
title: Submitting builds to App Stores
---

> This guide outlines how to submit your app to Apple App Store or Google Play Store. A paid developer account is required for each platform for which you wishy to submit an app. You can create an Apple Developer account on [Apple's developer site](https://developer.apple.com/account/) and a Google Play Developer account on the [Google Play Console sign-up page](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/signup/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide outlines how to submit your app to the Apple App Store or Google Play Store. A paid developer account is required for each platform for which you wish to submit an app. You can create an Apple Developer account on [Apple's developer site](https://developer.apple.com/account/) and a Google Play Developer account on the [Google Play Console sign-up page](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/signup/).
```

## 1. Build a standalone app

> You'll need a built native app binary. You can either use [EAS Build](introduction.md) service or do it on your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need a built native app binary. You can either use the [EAS Build](introduction.md) service or do it on your own.
```

## 2. Start the submission

> To submit the previously built app to the appropriate app store, you simply run `eas submit -p ios` or `eas submit -p android` from inside of your project directory. Except specifying platform, no other flags are required, the command will lead you step by step. To see all possible options along with example usages, run `eas submit --help`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To submit the previously built app to the appropriate app store, run `eas submit -p ios` or `eas submit -p android` from inside of your project directory. The command will lead you step by step through the process of submitting the app. To see all possible options along with example usages, run `eas submit --help`.
```

also, we should probably not make the flag required. if a user runs `eas submit` without a platform flag we should let them choose between ios/android, using this style of prompt.

![Screen Shot 2020-11-30 at 5 27 40 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/90494/100685507-607ab280-3331-11eb-8a43-d8241214f57b.png)

Author: Good idea, added to my list. Currently this flag is required to be consistent with `eas build:create` which also requires the flag

> Although it's possible to upload any binary to the store, each submission is assigned to an Expo project. That's why it's important to start submission from inside your project's directory - that's where your [app configuration](../workflow/configuration.md) is defined.

### 2.1 Submitting your Android app to Google Play

**Important:**

- You have to create a [Google Service Account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts) and download its JSON private key.
- After that, you'll have to create an app on [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/) and upload your app manually at least once.

#### Creating a Google Service Account

See [expo.fyi/creating-google-service-account](https://expo.fyi/creating-google-service-account) to learn more.

#### Manually uploading your app for the first time

> Before using `eas submit -p android` for uploading your standalone app builds, you have to upload your app manually at least once.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using `eas submit -p android` for uploading your builds, you have to upload your app manually at least once. This is a limitation of the Google Play Store API.
```

Author: I didn't notice that - these two lines are copied from https://docs.expo.io/distribution/uploading-apps/ 😶

> See [expo.fyi/first-android-submission](https://expo.fyi/first-android-submission) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

See [expo.fyi/first-android-submission](https://expo.fyi/first-android-submission) to learn more.
```

(instead of the br, we can add an extra newline)

#### Using EAS CLI to upload the further builds of your app

> To upload your iOS app to App store, run `eas submit --platform android` and follow the instructions on the screen. The command will do the following steps respectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload your Android app to the Google Play Store, run `eas submit --platform android` and follow the instructions on the screen. The command will perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Log in to EAS account and ensure that your app project exists on EAS servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your Expo account and ensure that your app project exists on EAS servers
```

although not reflected yet in eas-cli, we will continue to call the accounts "Expo accounts"

> 2. Prompt for Android package name unless `expo.android.package` in app configuration or `--android-package` param is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Prompt for the Android package name unless `expo.android.package` is set in app configuration or the `--android-package` param is provided.
```

> 3. Ask for binary to submit. You can select one of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Ask for a binary to submit. You can select one of the following:
```

>    - The latest finished iOS build for the project on EAS servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The latest finished Android build for the project on EAS servers
```

>    - Specific build ID. The ID can be found on your EAS Account under _Builds v2_ section

Reviewer: outside of the scope of this PR, but this reminds me that we should go ahead and rename this to EAS Build

Author: I assumed that it's going to be called _EAS Builds_ and already renamed it in the doc.

   - Path to an APK or AAB archive on your local filesystem
   - URL to the app archive

>    > This step can be skipped, if one of the following parameters is provided: `--latest`, `--id`, `--path` or `--url`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > This step can be skipped if one of the following parameters is provided: `--latest`, `--id`, `--path` or `--url`.
```

4. When you chose local path or URL as your binary location, the command will try to autodetect archive type basing on file extension. If it's unable to do so, it may prompt you to specify if it's APK or AAB archive. You can also use a `--type` parameter.
5. Unless a `--key` param is provided, you will be prompted for path to your Google Services JSON key.
6. The summary of provided configuration is displayed and the submission process begins. The submission progress is displayed on the screen.
7. Your build should now be visible on Google Play Console. If something goes wrong, an appropriate message is displayed on the screen.

### 2.2 Submitting your iOS app to App Store

**Important**: You'll have to generate an [Apple app-specific-password](https://expo.fyi/apple-app-specific-password) before uploading an app using EAS CLI.

> To upload your iOS app to App store, run `eas submit --platform ios` and follow the instructions on the screen. The command will do the following steps respectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload your iOS app to the Apple App Store, run `eas submit --platform ios` and follow the instructions on the screen. The command will perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Log in to EAS account and ensure that your app project exists on EAS servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to Expo account and ensure that your app project exists on EAS servers
```

2. Ensure that your app exists on App Store Connect and its [Bundle Identifier](https://expo.fyi/bundle-identifier) is registered on Apple Dev Center:

>    - You will be asked to sign into your Apple Developer account and select your team. You can also provide these information by using `--apple-id`, `--apple-team-id` params and `EXPO_APPLE_PASSWORD` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - You will be asked to sign into your Apple Developer account and select your team. You can also provide these information by using `--apple-id`, `--apple-team-id` params and the `EXPO_APPLE_PASSWORD` environment variable.
```

>    - The command will look for `expo.ios.bundleIdentifier` in your app configuration, or you can provide it directly using `--bundle-identifier` command param

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The command will look for `expo.ios.bundleIdentifier` in your app configuration, or you can provide it directly using the `--bundle-identifier` flag.
```

   - If you are submitting your app for the first time, it will be automatically created.
     Unless `expo.name` in your app configuration is found or `--app-name` param is provided, you will be prompted for app name.
     You can also specify your app's language and SKU using `--language` and `--sku` params respectively. If you have never submitted any app before, you may also have to specify your company name using `--company-name` parameter.

   > If you already have an App Store Connect app, this step can be skipped by providing the `--app-asc-id` param. The [ASC App Id](https://expo.fyi/asc-app-id) param can be either found on App Store Connect, or later during this command in the _Submission Summary_ table.

3. Ask for your Apple ID (if not provided earlier) and for your Apple app-specific password. They can be also provided using `--apple-id` param and `EXPO_APPLE_APP_SPECIFIC_PASSWORD` environment variable, respectively.
4. Ask for binary to submit. You can select one of the following:

>    - The latest finished iOS build for the project on EAS servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The latest successful iOS build for the project on EAS servers
```

   - Specific build ID. The ID can be found on your EAS Account under _Builds v2_ section
   - Path to an `.ipa` archive on your local filesystem
   - URL to the app archive

   > This step can be skipped, if one of the following parameters is provided: `--latest`, `--id`, `--path` or `--url`.

> 5. The summary of provided configuration is displayed and the submission process begins. The submission progress is displayed on the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. A summary of the provided configuration is displayed and the submission process begins. The submission progress is displayed on the screen.
```

6. Your build should now be visible on [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com). If something goes wrong, an appropriate message is displayed on the screen.

## Submitting your app using CI

The `eas submit` command is able to perform submissions from a CI environment. All you have to do is ensure that all required information is provided with command parameters and environment variables. Mainly, providing the archive source (`--latest`, `--id`, `--path` or `--url`) is essential. Also, make sure that Android package and/or iOS Bundle Identifier is present in your app configuration file, unless overwritten explicitly with flag parameters.

#### iOS submissions

> For iOS submissions you have to provide `EXPO_APPLE_APP_SPECIFIC_PASSWORD` environment variable along with Apple ID (`--apple-id`) and ASC App Id (`--asc-app-id`) parameters. The last one is required to skip Apple developer login with potential prompt for 2FA authentication.

Reviewer: >  The last one is required to skip Apple developer login with potential prompt for 2FA authentication.

is this referring to the `asc-app-id`? we should be explicit and name it in this sentence for clarity

Author: Yes, I've clarified it.

---
title: Submitting builds to App Stores
---

> This guide outlines how to submit your app to the Apple App Store or Google Play Store. A paid developer account is required for each platform for which you wish to submit an app. You can create an Apple Developer account on [Apple's developer site](https://developer.apple.com/account/) and a Google Play Developer account on the [Google Play Console sign-up page](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/signup/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide outlines how to submit your app to the Apple App Store or Google Play Store. A paid developer account is required for each platform for which you wish to submit an app. You can create an Apple Developer account on the [Apple's developer site](https://developer.apple.com/account/) and a Google Play Developer account on the [Google Play Console sign-up page](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/signup/).
```
🤔

### 2.1 Submitting your Android app to Google Play

**Important:**

- You have to create a [Google Service Account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts) and download its JSON private key.
- After that, you'll have to create an app on [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/) and upload your app manually at least once.

#### Creating a Google Service Account

See [expo.fyi/creating-google-service-account](https://expo.fyi/creating-google-service-account) to learn more.

#### Manually uploading your app for the first time

Before using `eas submit -p android` for uploading your builds, you have to upload your app manually at least once. This is a limitation of the Google Play Store API.

See [expo.fyi/first-android-submission](https://expo.fyi/first-android-submission) to learn more.

#### Using EAS CLI to upload the further builds of your app

To upload your Android app to the Google Play Store, run `eas submit --platform android` and follow the instructions on the screen. The command will perform the following steps:

1. Log in to your Expo account and ensure that your app project exists on EAS servers

> 2. Prompt for the Android package name unless `expo.android.package` is set in app configuration or the `--android-package` param is provided.

Reviewer 2: I think https://github.com/expo/eas-cli/pull/93 might change it :D Please sync with @wkozyra95

Reviewer 3: for now it's still using package field, I did not add support for applicationId there in app.json. I'm just treating this field as applicationId to update native project

3. Ask for a binary to submit. You can select one of the following:

   - The latest finished Android build for the project on EAS servers

>    - Specific build ID. The ID can be found on your EAS Account under _EAS Builds_ section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Specific build ID. The ID can be found on the [builds dashboard](https://expo.io/builds?type=eas)
```

4. When you chose local path or URL as your binary location, the command will try to autodetect archive type basing on file extension. If it's unable to do so, it may prompt you to specify if it's APK or AAB archive. You can also use a `--type` parameter.
5. Unless a `--key` param is provided, you will be prompted for path to your Google Services JSON key.
6. The summary of provided configuration is displayed and the submission process begins. The submission progress is displayed on the screen.
7. Your build should now be visible on Google Play Console. If something goes wrong, an appropriate message is displayed on the screen.

### 2.2 Submitting your iOS app to App Store

**Important**: You'll have to generate an [Apple app-specific-password](https://expo.fyi/apple-app-specific-password) before uploading an app using EAS CLI.

To upload your iOS app to the Apple App Store, run `eas submit --platform ios` and follow the instructions on the screen. The command will perform the following steps:

1. Log in to Expo account and ensure that your app project exists on EAS servers

> 2. Ensure that your app exists on App Store Connect and its [Bundle Identifier](https://expo.fyi/bundle-identifier) is registered on Apple Dev Center:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Ensure that your app exists on App Store Connect and its [Bundle Identifier](https://expo.fyi/bundle-identifier) is registered on Apple Developer Portal:
```
?

Reviewer 2: > its [Bundle Identifier](https://expo.fyi/bundle-identifier) is registered on Apple Dev Center:

Technically, if the bundle identifier hasn't been registered on Apple Developer Portal it's not possible to have an app binary using that particular bundle id. So maybe the command should fail/or ask the user why they provided a non-existent bundle id?

Author: Makes sense, but what about situation, when user builds a binary with specific bundle ID, then revokes it manually on Developer Portal and after that tries to upload id to the store? I know this sounds irrational, but if bundle ID is required for ASC Submission, it should be checked right before to avoid unnecessary failures.

>    - You will be asked to sign into your Apple Developer account and select your team. You can also provide these information by using `--apple-id`, `--apple-team-id` params and the `EXPO_APPLE_PASSWORD` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - You will be asked to sign into your Apple Developer account and select your team. You can also provide this information by using the `--apple-id`, `--apple-team-id` params and the `EXPO_APPLE_PASSWORD` environment variable.
```

>    - The command will look for `expo.ios.bundleIdentifier` in your app configuration, or you can provide it directly using the `--bundle-identifier` flag.

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/expo/eas-cli/pull/93

   - If you are submitting your app for the first time, it will be automatically created.

>      Unless `expo.name` in your app configuration is found or `--app-name` param is provided, you will be prompted for app name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Unless `expo.name` in your app configuration is found or an `--app-name` param is provided, you will be prompted for app name.
```

     You can also specify your app's language and SKU using `--language` and `--sku` params respectively. If you have never submitted any app before, you may also have to specify your company name using `--company-name` parameter.

>    > If you already have an App Store Connect app, this step can be skipped by providing the `--app-asc-id` param. The [ASC App Id](https://expo.fyi/asc-app-id) param can be either found on App Store Connect, or later during this command in the _Submission Summary_ table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > If you already have an App Store Connect app, this step can be skipped by providing the `--app-asc-id` param. The [ASC App Id](https://expo.fyi/asc-app-id) param can be found either on App Store Connect, or later during this command in the _Submission Summary_ table.
```

3. Ask for your Apple ID (if not provided earlier) and for your Apple app-specific password. They can be also provided using `--apple-id` param and `EXPO_APPLE_APP_SPECIFIC_PASSWORD` environment variable, respectively.
4. Ask for binary to submit. You can select one of the following:

   - The latest successful iOS build for the project on EAS servers

>    - Specific build ID. The ID can be found on your EAS Account under _EAS Builds_ section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Specific build ID. The ID can be found on the [builds dashboard](https://expo.io/builds?type=eas)
```
